Paris is widely known as “The City of Lights” or “La Ville-Lumiere”. This name was given to Paris not only because Paris has always been the center of education and clerisy, but also because it was one of the first cities to have a street lightning system.
More than 25 millions tourists visit Paris annually.
Don’t shoot or display fireworks from the Eiffel Tower at night. It is prohibited by the French Constitution.
If you happen to ask your question in English, don’t be surprised to hear a Parisian giving you an answer in French. Parisians are very fond of their language and don’t like speaking English, especially with tourists.
There is only one “Stop” sign in Paris, located at the exit of a building company in the rich 16th arrondissement.
Parisians love dogs. It is estimated that the number of dogs in the city exceeds the number of children. According to some reviews, the number of dogs in the French capital goes over the half a million. Parisians are allowed to take their dogs to some of the restaurants. They even have special vacuum cleaners which clean after the dogs.
There is also an official law (!) about the Parisian baguette, which mentions the exact size and the dough consistency of this bread.
Passengers in the Parisian metro should open and close the metro doors by themselves. The stations are also not announced.
Every year there is a competition for the best baker in Paris. The winner gets an opportunity to bake for the president himself!
110 movies and 161 one-reelers have been filmed in Paris. It took 3339 days for shooting.
In the last couple of years Parisian government has been actively striving for a good ecology. Due to the very busy city transportation, the air pollution has reached its maximum. Therefore the government has passed the law, according to which the cars with the odd numbers are allowed to drive in the city only in the odd days, and cars with the even numbers are allowed to drive only in the even days. Call it brilliant, desperate or odd but this is a new Paris reality.
Paris is slowly turning into the city of bicycles, which is also good for the local ecology. Nowadays there are more than 500 kilometers of bike lanes in the city.